docs/designdoc.md, before:

# DESIGNDOC

``acorn-player`` is the embedded-player used by acorn.
[Acorn](http://staging.acorn.athena.ai) is a universal media wrapper.

The purpose of ``acorn-player`` is to provide a simple media
player that supports viewing all sorts of different media types, in a unified
way.

## Overview

Note: overview from a product-centric view.

### Terminology:

* **media**: a viewable, consumable stream of information, usually of a
  particular kind

  (e.g. video, sound, text, games).

* **media primitive**: cannonical kinds of media

  (e.g. video, text, sound).

* **multimedia**: a kind of media that encompasses other kinds of media

  (e.g. games, slideshow).


* **media kind**: a concretely defined type of media (on the web).

  (e.g. text, an audio file, an image file, a YouTube Video, a Vimeo Video)

* **media piece**: an independent, atomic media item

  (e.g. a specific video).

* **remix**: a media piece built on top of other media pieces.

  (e.g. a specific video clip from a specific video).

* **player**: web technology that enables viewing/consumption of media pieces.

* **native-player**: web technology of a particular vendor, to be used to play
  media pieces hosted by the vendor

  (e.g. YouTube Embedded Player, Vimeo Player).

* **acorn**: a remix combining media pieces through the use of computation.

* **``acorn-player``**: a player that plays acorns


* **shell**: an ``acorn-player`` module to play and edit specific media kinds.

  (e.g. ``ImageLinkShell``, ``YouTubeShell``).



### Description

``acorn-player`` is a web technology that enables playing and remixing
different kinds of media in a unified way.

``acorn-player`` enables:
* playing media pieces of various kinds
* composing remixes
* embedding in webpages

#### Playing Media Pieces

``acorn-player`` aims to be a player that can play all kinds of different media
pieces, of various kinds and from various vendors. It should be able to:

* show videos, music, images, text, documents, etc.
* more specifically, show YouTube and Vimeo videos, .jpg and .png files, .mp3
  files, Flash games, PDF files, etc.
* and show compositions of these, such as playlists, galleries, slideshows,
  spliced videos, etc.

Thus, ``acorn-player`` has a very general approach to interacting with
 media that can be extended to support each specific kind of media.

The current design of the player viewing state features a content viewing area,
and a generic controls bar:

![content-controls-separation](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-kwxurtywnhpnyssm188a21mry9.png)

##### Content Area

The content area is left up to specific shells to render as they wish, for
example:

* VimeoShell - Renders vimeo player through an embedded iframe.

![vimeo-shell](http://static.enrage.me/athena/test.vimeo.shell.png)

* PDFShell - Renders pdf through an embedded iframe.

![pdf-shell](http://static.enrage.me/athena/test.pdf.shell.png)

* LinkShell - Renders website through an embedded iframe.

![link-shell](http://static.enrage.me/athena/test.link.shell.png)


##### Controls Bar

The controls bar is further divided in two sections:

* **acorn-wide section**: controls that affect or leverage all acorns,
regardless of the underlying media kinds (or the shells used to render them).

* **shell-specific section**: controls that affect or leverage the media
playing, and thus depend on the underlying media kinds and the shells used to
render them.


![controls-division](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-cds9g6j2ub3g1t97ea8fxp9wy7.png)


The controls above are:

* acorn-wide controls:
  * **Edit** opens an editor to edit the underlying acorn.
  * **Link** opens the current acorn webpage (if it is saved to a server).
  * **Fullscreen** fullscreens the acorn in the browser.


* shell-specific controls, in this case for a MultiShell:
  * **Previous** switches to the previous subshell.
  * **List** opens a list of all subshells in this MultiShell.
  * **Next** switches to the next subshell.

![controls-division-full](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-c82ujsw994ty81aqy9xnawnye4.png)


#### Composing Remixes


``acorn`` enables remixing one or multiple media pieces (of different kinds)
into a new media piece. ``acorn-player`` allows this remixing via a composition
or editing interface, that is specific to the media kind.

Some examples of remixing, with interfaces:

* clipping a video -- VideoLinkShell

![videolinkshell-editing](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-1t1seh9g4i25r59ij7n887qu82.png)

* playlist of various media -- MultiShell

![multishell-editing](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-chk6qapyd81gn61fh4qs2rr4uu.png)

This capability is implemented by having a generic acorn-wide edit view where
the acorn itself can be edited:

![edit-view](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-akb42ac6iumippjapkkxj6mtf.png)

and a section of the view is devoted to editing the shell itself.

![edit-view](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-1fhmsb3wa8rhtssrjnqutts9dk.png)

The shell itself can decide how and what to render in its area -- similar to how
the content view allows shells to decide what to render. This is so that shells
are free to craft the best editing experience for themselves. For example, MultiShells, having various subshells, just render the edit views of its subshells:

![multi-shell-edit-view](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-gq8bwnxd9ytsbshyhfpx4uqx59.png)


#### Embedding in Webpages

Acorn allows diverse kinds of media to be incorporated into webpages in a
uniform fasion. The ``acorn-player`` is simple to embed, and it handles the
complexities of dealing with different kinds of media internally. As a result,
both users and developers can embed a wide variety of media in exactly the same
way every time. Users can do this through the acorn player interface and
developers can do so programmatically.

**Historical Note**: creating wrappers to embed various kinds of media is a
particular pain point for any developer wishing to build a website that enables
its users to submit arbitrary media. This pain is actually what motivated the
original conception of acorn. @jbenet sought a uniform library that could embed
all kinds of media links uniformly but could not find any. As acorn took shape
to fulfill this need, it became apparent that the computing layer of indirection
acorn introduced afforded exciting power to remix media.

``acorn-player`` aims to be embeddable across the web, much like the YouTube
and Vimeo players. It should load quickly, regardless of underlying media type.
Further, it should behave in a manner expected by current web-denizens. These
requirements motivate the use of an iframe that initially shows a thumbnail
while content loads behind the scenes. The content is swapped into view when the
user engages with the media (click!).

embedded ``acorn-player``:

![embedded-acorn-player](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-ewk57srmfynjiwkhhyfgfxx884.png)


In order to inform the viewer of the media's primitive type, the thumbnail
should be overlaid with an icon that conveys the kind of media.

![annotated-embedded-acorn-player](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-keruw8hcbjbt8gt2tm6xt1pg52.png)

Clicking the player should begin playing the media, transitioning to show
the content area.


## Implementation

### Technologies


HTML5, JS, CSS3

Libraries:

* jQuery (js)
* Underscore.js
* Backbone.js
* Bootstrap (css, js)

Services:
* url2png
//TODO(ali): add note that thumbnails wont work :p

### Architecture

### Codebase

#### File Hierarchy:

    js/src/
    ├── acorn.js
    ├── acorn.player.js
    └── shells
        ├── shell.js
        ├── empty.shell.js
        ├── link.shell.js
        ├── imagelink.shell.js
        ├── videolink.shell.js
        ├── youtube.shell.js
        ├── vimeo.shell.js
        ├── pdf.shell.js
        └── multi.shell.js


#### Code Hierarchy

##### acorn.js
[acorn.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.js) defines and
implements the base acorn model and top level API. First and foremost, the
acorn model includes basic operations common to all acorns including (but not
limited to) ways to construct acorns from URLs, media, or preexisting acorn
data objects. Second, it provides useful accessors to the acorn data fields
like the acornid. Third, it provides utility methods for the JSON
serialization and deserialization of acorns. Fourth, it includes preliminary
support for integration of acorn with a backend of your choice.

Outside of the acorn data model,
[acorn.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.js) includes a
slew of utility functions (under acorn.util.*) that facilitate programatic
interaction with acorns.

##### acorn.player.js
[acorn.player.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.player.js)
defines the acorn.player object. The acorn.player object encapsulates all
the views (deriving from Backbone.View) that are needed to create the user 
experience and behavior outlined in the overview section above. The model
behind those views is provided by
[acorn.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.js). At a high
level, acorn.player comprises four primary views (among several other subsidiary
views):

* PlayerView - the main acorn player view.
  The PlayerView object provides abstracts away the following behaviors:
  * initialization of the acorn's data model and Backbone view hierarchy
  * adequate event firing whenever the user interacts with the acorn at the
    player level (e.g. the acorn is renamed, changed, or saved).
  * player rendering logic; note that the content of the acorn is rendered by
    the implementation of the acorn shell for said content type.
* ControlsView - the view containing media control buttons. The ControlsView 
  provides the control buttons that all acorns share (namely, 
  FullscreenControl, AcornControl, and EditControl). Shells can extend that 
  list of controls with their own, special purpose buttons.
* ContentView - the parent view for each shells' main content view. Each
  shell's ContentView derives from this top-level ContentView and implements
  the rendering logic for the shell's own content-type.
* EditView - the parent view for all shells' edit views. Each
  shell's EditView derives from this top-level EditView and implements
  the rendering logic for the shell's own edit mode.


##### empty.shell.js
[empty.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/empty.shell.js) is the simplest example of a shell implementation. It
simply implements the rendering of a shell that has no content. At the moment, 
the shell simply displays a message along the lines of "This acorn is 
currently empty. Visit acorn.athena.ai for more acorns."

##### link.shell.js

##### imagelink.shell.js
[imagelink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/imagelink.shell.js)
is a shell implementation that wraps any image type (formats currently
supported: *.{jpg,gif,png,svg}) by embedding it into an HTML image tag in the
render function of the shell's ContentView.

##### videolink.shell.js
[videolink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/videolink.shell.js)
is the abstract shell from which all video shells (like the YouTube and Vimeo
shells) derive.

##### youtube.shell.js
[youtube.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/youtube.shell.js)
is a shell that wraps a YouTube video. It inherits from
[videolink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/videolink.shell.js).

##### vimeo.shell.js
[vimeo.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/vimeo.shell.js)
is a shell that wraps a Vimeo video. It inherits from
[videolink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/videolink.shell.js).

##### pdf.shell.js
[pdf.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/pdf.shell.js)
is a shell that wraps a PDF document by loading it in an iframe. It inherits
from
[link.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/link.shell.js).

##### multi.shell.js
##### shell.js

Commit message:

designdoc: added overview of link.shell.js

docs/designdoc.md, after:

# DESIGNDOC

``acorn-player`` is the embedded-player used by acorn.
[Acorn](http://staging.acorn.athena.ai) is a universal media wrapper.

The purpose of ``acorn-player`` is to provide a simple media
player that supports viewing all sorts of different media types, in a unified
way.

## Overview

Note: overview from a product-centric view.

### Terminology:

* **media**: a viewable, consumable stream of information, usually of a
  particular kind

  (e.g. video, sound, text, games).

* **media primitive**: cannonical kinds of media

  (e.g. video, text, sound).

* **multimedia**: a kind of media that encompasses other kinds of media

  (e.g. games, slideshow).


* **media kind**: a concretely defined type of media (on the web).

  (e.g. text, an audio file, an image file, a YouTube Video, a Vimeo Video)

* **media piece**: an independent, atomic media item

  (e.g. a specific video).

* **remix**: a media piece built on top of other media pieces.

  (e.g. a specific video clip from a specific video).

* **player**: web technology that enables viewing/consumption of media pieces.

* **native-player**: web technology of a particular vendor, to be used to play
  media pieces hosted by the vendor

  (e.g. YouTube Embedded Player, Vimeo Player).

* **acorn**: a remix combining media pieces through the use of computation.

* **``acorn-player``**: a player that plays acorns


* **shell**: an ``acorn-player`` module to play and edit specific media kinds.

  (e.g. ``ImageLinkShell``, ``YouTubeShell``).



### Description

``acorn-player`` is a web technology that enables playing and remixing
different kinds of media in a unified way.

``acorn-player`` enables:
* playing media pieces of various kinds
* composing remixes
* embedding in webpages

#### Playing Media Pieces

``acorn-player`` aims to be a player that can play all kinds of different media
pieces, of various kinds and from various vendors. It should be able to:

* show videos, music, images, text, documents, etc.
* more specifically, show YouTube and Vimeo videos, .jpg and .png files, .mp3
  files, Flash games, PDF files, etc.
* and show compositions of these, such as playlists, galleries, slideshows,
  spliced videos, etc.

Thus, ``acorn-player`` has a very general approach to interacting with
 media that can be extended to support each specific kind of media.

The current design of the player viewing state features a content viewing area,
and a generic controls bar:

![content-controls-separation](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-kwxurtywnhpnyssm188a21mry9.png)

##### Content Area

The content area is left up to specific shells to render as they wish, for
example:

* VimeoShell - Renders vimeo player through an embedded iframe.

![vimeo-shell](http://static.enrage.me/athena/test.vimeo.shell.png)

* PDFShell - Renders pdf through an embedded iframe.

![pdf-shell](http://static.enrage.me/athena/test.pdf.shell.png)

* LinkShell - Renders website through an embedded iframe.

![link-shell](http://static.enrage.me/athena/test.link.shell.png)


##### Controls Bar

The controls bar is further divided in two sections:

* **acorn-wide section**: controls that affect or leverage all acorns,
regardless of the underlying media kinds (or the shells used to render them).

* **shell-specific section**: controls that affect or leverage the media
playing, and thus depend on the underlying media kinds and the shells used to
render them.


![controls-division](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-cds9g6j2ub3g1t97ea8fxp9wy7.png)


The controls above are:

* acorn-wide controls:
  * **Edit** opens an editor to edit the underlying acorn.
  * **Link** opens the current acorn webpage (if it is saved to a server).
  * **Fullscreen** fullscreens the acorn in the browser.


* shell-specific controls, in this case for a MultiShell:
  * **Previous** switches to the previous subshell.
  * **List** opens a list of all subshells in this MultiShell.
  * **Next** switches to the next subshell.

![controls-division-full](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-c82ujsw994ty81aqy9xnawnye4.png)


#### Composing Remixes


``acorn`` enables remixing one or multiple media pieces (of different kinds)
into a new media piece. ``acorn-player`` allows this remixing via a composition
or editing interface, that is specific to the media kind.

Some examples of remixing, with interfaces:

* clipping a video -- VideoLinkShell

![videolinkshell-editing](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-1t1seh9g4i25r59ij7n887qu82.png)

* playlist of various media -- MultiShell

![multishell-editing](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-chk6qapyd81gn61fh4qs2rr4uu.png)

This capability is implemented by having a generic acorn-wide edit view where
the acorn itself can be edited:

![edit-view](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-akb42ac6iumippjapkkxj6mtf.png)

and a section of the view is devoted to editing the shell itself.

![edit-view](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-1fhmsb3wa8rhtssrjnqutts9dk.png)

The shell itself can decide how and what to render in its area -- similar to how
the content view allows shells to decide what to render. This is so that shells
are free to craft the best editing experience for themselves. For example, MultiShells, having various subshells, just render the edit views of its subshells:

![multi-shell-edit-view](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-gq8bwnxd9ytsbshyhfpx4uqx59.png)


#### Embedding in Webpages

Acorn allows diverse kinds of media to be incorporated into webpages in a
uniform fasion. The ``acorn-player`` is simple to embed, and it handles the
complexities of dealing with different kinds of media internally. As a result,
both users and developers can embed a wide variety of media in exactly the same
way every time. Users can do this through the acorn player interface and
developers can do so programmatically.

**Historical Note**: creating wrappers to embed various kinds of media is a
particular pain point for any developer wishing to build a website that enables
its users to submit arbitrary media. This pain is actually what motivated the
original conception of acorn. @jbenet sought a uniform library that could embed
all kinds of media links uniformly but could not find any. As acorn took shape
to fulfill this need, it became apparent that the computing layer of indirection
acorn introduced afforded exciting power to remix media.

``acorn-player`` aims to be embeddable across the web, much like the YouTube
and Vimeo players. It should load quickly, regardless of underlying media type.
Further, it should behave in a manner expected by current web-denizens. These
requirements motivate the use of an iframe that initially shows a thumbnail
while content loads behind the scenes. The content is swapped into view when the
user engages with the media (click!).

embedded ``acorn-player``:

![embedded-acorn-player](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-ewk57srmfynjiwkhhyfgfxx884.png)


In order to inform the viewer of the media's primitive type, the thumbnail
should be overlaid with an icon that conveys the kind of media.

![annotated-embedded-acorn-player](https://img.skitch.com/20120911-keruw8hcbjbt8gt2tm6xt1pg52.png)

Clicking the player should begin playing the media, transitioning to show
the content area.


## Implementation

### Technologies


HTML5, JS, CSS3

Libraries:

* jQuery (js)
* Underscore.js
* Backbone.js
* Bootstrap (css, js)

Services:
* url2png
//TODO(ali): add note that thumbnails wont work :p

### Architecture

### Codebase

#### File Hierarchy:

    js/src/
    ├── acorn.js
    ├── acorn.player.js
    └── shells
        ├── shell.js
        ├── empty.shell.js
        ├── link.shell.js
        ├── imagelink.shell.js
        ├── videolink.shell.js
        ├── youtube.shell.js
        ├── vimeo.shell.js
        ├── pdf.shell.js
        └── multi.shell.js


#### Code Hierarchy

##### acorn.js
[acorn.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.js) defines and
implements the base acorn model and top level API. First and foremost, the
acorn model includes basic operations common to all acorns including (but not
limited to) ways to construct acorns from URLs, media, or preexisting acorn
data objects. Second, it provides useful accessors to the acorn data fields
like the acornid. Third, it provides utility methods for the JSON
serialization and deserialization of acorns. Fourth, it includes preliminary
support for integration of acorn with a backend of your choice.

Outside of the acorn data model,
[acorn.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.js) includes a
slew of utility functions (under acorn.util.*) that facilitate programatic
interaction with acorns.

##### acorn.player.js
[acorn.player.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.player.js)
defines the acorn.player object. The acorn.player object encapsulates all
the views (deriving from Backbone.View) that are needed to create the user 
experience and behavior outlined in the overview section above. The model
behind those views is provided by
[acorn.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/acorn.js). At a high
level, acorn.player comprises four primary views (among several other subsidiary
views):

* PlayerView - the main acorn player view.
  The PlayerView object provides abstracts away the following behaviors:
  * initialization of the acorn's data model and Backbone view hierarchy
  * adequate event firing whenever the user interacts with the acorn at the
    player level (e.g. the acorn is renamed, changed, or saved).
  * player rendering logic; note that the content of the acorn is rendered by
    the implementation of the acorn shell for said content type.
* ControlsView - the view containing media control buttons. The ControlsView 
  provides the control buttons that all acorns share (namely, 
  FullscreenControl, AcornControl, and EditControl). Shells can extend that 
  list of controls with their own, special purpose buttons.
* ContentView - the parent view for each shells' main content view. Each
  shell's ContentView derives from this top-level ContentView and implements
  the rendering logic for the shell's own content-type.
* EditView - the parent view for all shells' edit views. Each
  shell's EditView derives from this top-level EditView and implements
  the rendering logic for the shell's own edit mode.


##### empty.shell.js
[empty.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/empty.shell.js) is the simplest example of a shell implementation. It
simply implements the rendering of a shell that has no content. At the moment, 
the shell simply displays a message along the lines of "This acorn is 
currently empty. Visit acorn.athena.ai for more acorns."

##### link.shell.js
[link.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/link.shell.js)
is a shell that wraps the content of an arbitrary link whose content-type is
not specifically supported by acorn. The link destination will simply be
embedded as an iframe by the shell. It inherits from
[shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/shell.js).

##### imagelink.shell.js
[imagelink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/imagelink.shell.js)
is a shell implementation that wraps any image type (formats currently
supported: *.{jpg,gif,png,svg}) by embedding it into an HTML image tag in the
render function of the shell's ContentView.

##### videolink.shell.js
[videolink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/videolink.shell.js)
is the abstract shell from which all video shells (like the YouTube and Vimeo
shells) derive.

##### youtube.shell.js
[youtube.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/youtube.shell.js)
is a shell that wraps a YouTube video. It inherits from
[videolink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/videolink.shell.js).

##### vimeo.shell.js
[vimeo.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/vimeo.shell.js)
is a shell that wraps a Vimeo video. It inherits from
[videolink.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/videolink.shell.js).

##### pdf.shell.js
[pdf.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/pdf.shell.js)
is a shell that wraps a PDF document by loading it in an iframe. It inherits
from
[link.shell.js](/athenalabs/acorn-player/blob/master/js/src/shells/link.shell.js).

##### multi.shell.js
##### shell.js
